Karina Banda
7/2015-8/2015

CHICAGO RUN'S WEB APPLICATION UPDATE

== Overview ===
Update to Chicago Run's web application, mychicagorun.org. Based on the usability case 
studies Chicago Run conducted and styling issues that I saw, the structure of their 
ASP.NET source files were altered using HTML, CSS, and Javascript. Only the files that 
were altered are included here. 


=== Issues that were addressed ===
The main problem that needed to be addressed was the need for a more concise look and 
functionality.

As this web app's function is to provide schools and students to be able to track their 
mileage and keep them motivated, the most important feature in this application is the 
mile entry service. Getting to the right page was a task in itself as users would get 
confused by the labels of the different buttons. Styling could have also affected in the 
confusion as buttons were of different fonts, letter case, and sizes. In this update, 
these links and buttons among others across the website were changed to have a more 
compact look while still distinguishing the important buttons based on the color scheme. 

In terms of functionality when adding the mileage, many times the user's mileage wouldn't 
get added and this would occur without their knowledge. The system had been set up so 
that it was essential that the information would only get saved once the button from the 
preview pane was pushed. Based on the layout though, this preview pane was out of view 
and users were unaware of its existence. I reordered the steps to have a better and more 
direct flow to the mileage entry and an event listener that would scroll down to the page 
once the final step had been clicked, bringing them to the preview pane and creating a 
more straight forward experience. 

All changes has to be altered in all the different end users to ensure that the web 
application was up to date on each end. The different end users include - Admin, Teacher, 
Guardian, and Student. 


=== Importance ===
Chicago Public Schools don't always have enough funds and there are sometimes cutbacks as 
well. As a non-profit, it is essential to create an easy to use application for the 
schools that Chicago Run has a partnership with. Teachers are busy themselves and if 
they feel it is too much work to use, the may not use it at all. 



COPYRIGHT Â© CHICAGORUN 2015

